Verdict: PREFLIGHT REQUIRED

Do not change package.json to tsx --watch server/ client/ server/index.ts. Plain tsx server/index.ts is not watch mode; if file writes restart it, the watcher is likely Replit’s workflow/preview supervisor rather than tsx itself. Replit’s Run button executes the selected workflow, while .replit controls the default run command.  

Immediate practical fix

Create a second workflow specifically for stable background-job observation:

Workflow name: Stable Server Observation
Task: Execute Shell Command
Command:
node --import tsx server/index.ts

Then:

1. Stop the normal Start application workflow.
2. Start Stable Server Observation manually.
3. Do not assign it to any Agent-managed preview or auto-run workflow.
4. Leave the workspace untouched while observing scheduled cycles.

node --import tsx runs TypeScript without enabling tsx watch mode.

Corrections to send Replit

Run a read-only development-restart preflight.
1. Inspect:
   - .replit run configuration
   - package.json dev/start scripts
   - the selected Run-button workflow
   - all Workflow tasks
   - any nodemon, tsx watch, vite-node, concurrently, or custom supervisor configuration
2. Capture the runtime process tree after startup:
   ps -ef --forest
   or:
   ps -eo pid,ppid,cmd --forest
3. Determine which process restarts server/index.ts after a write:
   - tsx watch
   - nodemon
   - Replit workflow/preview supervisor
   - Agent auto-run behavior
   - another process manager
4. If an application-level watcher owns the restart:
   configure explicit watch paths and ignores.
5. If Replit’s workspace supervisor owns the restart:
   do not attempt to fix it with tsx ignore flags.
   Add a separate manually launched “Stable Server Observation” workflow using:
   node --import tsx server/index.ts
6. Keep the existing normal development workflow unchanged until the stable workflow is proven.
7. Do not modify production deployment commands.

If you intentionally want hot reload with restricted paths

Use a watcher that explicitly supports ignored paths, such as nodemon:

{
  "scripts": {
    "dev:server": "nodemon --watch server --ext ts,tsx,js,json --ignore scripts/** --ignore .agents/** --ignore .local/** --ignore MEMORY.md --exec \"node --import tsx server/index.ts\""
  }
}

Then the workflow runs:

npm run dev:server

But this only helps when nodemon is the process detecting writes. It will not override Replit externally restarting the whole workflow.

Most reliable solution

For uninterrupted 30-minute-plus scheduler verification, observe a deployment, not the editable development workspace. Replit deployments run separately from workspace edits; a Reserved VM is specifically suited to always-on APIs and background workers.  

Kill lines

STOP if plain tsx is blamed without proving it is running in watch mode.
STOP if package.json is changed before inspecting .replit and the active workflow.
STOP if a watcher is added on top of an existing Replit supervisor, creating double restarts.
STOP if production deployment commands are altered to solve a development-only issue.
STOP if scheduler verification relies on an editable workspace when a stable deployment is available.

The best immediate move is the separate Stable Server Observation workflow. If that workflow also restarts after unrelated file writes, the restart is Replit-owned and the definitive observation environment should be the deployed app.