Verdict: BUILD-READY WITH CORRECTIONS

The preflight is solid. The main remaining issue is that Enrichment Attempted uses a loaded-row prospect count, so its popover must not imply a full-dataset aggregate.

Corrections to send back

Proceed with these corrections:
1. Make the Enrichment Attempted limitation explicit.
Its Prospect contribution is:
prospects.filter(status === "enriched" || status === "qualified").length
That is based on the currently loaded prospect rows, not necessarily the full prospects table.
Label the row:
“Loaded prospects enriched/qualified”
Add explanation:
“Prospect count reflects records currently loaded in this view.”
Do not present it as a global Prospects total.
2. Build each KPI from one config object.
For every card, define:
{
  label,
  total,
  rows,
  explanation,
  overlapWarning
}
Render both the card total and popover from that object.
This is especially important for Converted, where the formula has a server value with a client fallback. Resolve the value once, then use the same resolved value in the card and popover.
3. Do not require row sums during loading.
Only enforce:
sum(rows) === total
after all required source data for that KPI has loaded.
While loading:
- preserve the existing skeleton/loading treatment;
- do not render source rows as real zero values.
4. Use the project’s shared number formatter if one exists.
Do not scatter direct toLocaleString() calls across seven cards and the reusable component.
Use one formatting helper so totals and popover rows always match.
5. Keep single-source popovers useful.
For Pending Enrichment, CRM records with contact info, and Converted, include a short definition rather than merely repeating the same number in one row.
Required clarification for CRM records with contact info:
“Counts active, non-DNC CRM records with a nonblank email or phone. This is not a canonical outreach-eligibility check.”
6. Verify the reusable component does not own KPI calculations.
KpiBreakdownPopover should receive already-resolved values. It must not query data or reconstruct formulas internally.
7. Refactor the existing Total lead records popover without changing its current interaction or overlap wording.

Kill lines

STOP if Enrichment Attempted implies its loaded Prospect count is a full-table aggregate.
STOP if Converted card and popover independently apply different fallback logic.
STOP if loading or missing data is rendered as a confirmed zero-source breakdown.
STOP if the reusable component contains KPI-specific source formulas.
STOP if single-source popovers only repeat the number without explaining its meaning.
STOP if refactoring Total lead records changes its calculation or accessibility behavior.

Validation

- Every fully loaded KPI row sum equals the displayed total.
- Enrichment Attempted clearly labels its Prospect component as loaded-row scoped.
- Converted resolves its value once and uses it everywhere.
- CRM contact-info explains that it is not canonical contactability.
- Hot/Warm include all three sources and the overlap warning.
- Loading states show no false zero breakdown.
- All seven cards use the same formatter and reusable popover component.
- Mouse, keyboard, and touch interactions work without nested-button warnings.

Final status: BUILD-READY WITH CORRECTIONS

The popover implementation is safe. Just make the loaded-prospect limitation explicit and ensure each card and breakdown share one resolved configuration.