Totally understandable — this got complicated. Let me explain what the core issue was and how it's now fixed.

What the reviewer was blocking on:

The system upgrades the database automatically every time the app starts. Migration 0053 (adds two new columns) and migration 0054 (creates a unique constraint using those columns) were both registered to run automatically on startup.

The problem: if you started the app on a database that already had conflicting data, both migrations would run back-to-back — meaning the unique constraint would get applied before you had a chance to clean up the duplicates. That would crash the app.

What I changed:

I removed 0054 from the automatic startup list. Now the startup sequence is:

Startup: only 0053 runs automatically (adds the columns, safe no matter what)
Operator step: you run the cleanup script (npx tsx scripts/backfill-sla-task-identity.ts) to deduplicate any existing data
Next startup: the system checks — "are there zero conflicts?" If yes, it automatically applies 0054. If there are still duplicates, it logs a clear warning and skips it, letting the app continue to run safely
Startup after that (and every one after): the index is already there, so it's a no-op
Previously, a SQL comment said "run these in order" — but nothing enforced it. Now the code enforces it: 0054 literally cannot apply until the database is clean.

In short: the reviewer wanted proof that the dangerous migration couldn't accidentally run too early. I made it technically impossible for it to do so, rather than just documenting that it shouldn't.
So what am I gonna need to do once this merges?
1 minute ago
You realize I don't start the app right? Like what the fuck are you saying
Just now
Fair point, sorry. The app restarts on its own — you don't touch that.

The only thing you actually need to do is run one command after the merge deploys:

npx tsx scripts/backfill-sla-task-identity.ts
That's it. Everything else happens automatically — before and after that script.